What are you doing?
Planting this tree.
Right, that's a small tree.
Yeah, it'll get bigger.
Tomorrow?
No, not tomorrow.
Wind then.
Long after I'm gone.
Many years.
Maybe by the time you get to be my age, it'll be big enough to provide shade.
Well, that's not fair.
Do you enjoy swinging on the rope in your yard?
Yeah.
Who planted that tree?
Uh...
It's always been there.
No.
That tree was planted by someone generations ago so that you could play in its shade.
I'm just doing the same.
Well, bugs live in it, squirrels.
Yes, yeah, but when it's big and it'll be a home,
for all the wildlife.
Who are water in a tree?
I will.
Do you want to help?
Yeah.
All right, here you go.
All right, let's go over here.
Got water all the way around.
That's good.
Welcome to the Well Community Church.
So glad you're hanging out with us here this week.
If we have not had the privilege of meeting yet, my name's Brad.
I'd like to share with you a little bit about what's happening.
It's been a very interesting season here at the Well, and we are taking some next steps that we just want to make sure everybody is aware of as we move forward.
I met a couple here today here for the first time, and I said, you know, it's a really interesting time to come.
Some would argue it's a terrible time because we are launching a capital campaign, but honestly,
I want to reframe that.
I think it's a perfect time because you see what we value.
You see what we're committed to.
You see where God is leading us and what you might be a part of as we move forward.
And so with that, you've been given a little card when you came in.
We're going to talk about that here in a little bit.
But for now, I want to kind of set up where we're heading here this morning.
We celebrate next month, 24 years as a church, which is pretty exciting for us.
And in that, yeah, thank you.
To consider the
beginnings of our church from a core group of college students really wanting to be a part of a movement that taught and exposited the scripture and lived in community and all the things we've been about now for over two decades.
We started the church to help people connect to God and to each other in every neighborhood.
And what we meant by that was
Primarily, we want to be responsible for proclaiming the gospel.
We want people to hear about Jesus Christ, to be reconciled to God through Christ by His Spirit.
We want to teach the Bible.
We want to train, equip, disciple as best we could.
And we've been about that now, as I mentioned, for over two decades.
But we also wanted to help people connect to each other.
We said, let's invite people in to the mess of life together.
Let's walk out this messy process of life with God in community.
Let's acknowledge that community is a bit of a rock tumbler.
that sometimes there's some collisions, sometimes there's some hard conversations.
And in many ways, the best part of the church is the people.
And in some ways, the hardest part of the church is the people.
And yet when we get invited into relationship together, that's where spiritual formation happens.
Transformation happens because we enter into relationships together.
And we said, let's do that in every neighborhood.
And what we meant by that was, let's not just gather crowds and entertain Christians.
Let's train and equip one another to go be the church out in every neighborhood.
Let's go engage the pillars of need in our city.
Let's put the gospel on display in our community.
Let's let our light shine before men and women in such a way that they would see our good works and glorify our Father who is in heaven.
And that's what we've been about now for 20, almost 24 years now.
And in that we've always focused on health and wanted to allow for growth.
When you talk to folks that are in the business world, it's common for people to talk about growth engines and new markets and things that they're doing to better position themselves to a certain demographic.
And that's just never been what we've been about here because the church is not a business.
And thankfully, it's an organic thing.
It grows if it's healthy.
And sometimes it grows more than other times.
But the reality is, is healthy things organically tend to grow.
And so we've been trying to build the trellis.
as this thing's been growing, just to see, Lord, what do you want to do?
We know that you are the lead pastor, we know you're the chief shepherd, and so we're simply trying to respond to you.
And in fact, Paul makes a statement that he watered, or he planted rather, a Paulos watered, but actually it was God who was causing the growth, which means one of the unique things about a church is unless the Lord build the house, the people labor in vain who build it.
unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchman stays awake in vain.
It's a vain thing for us to stay up later to rise early or to eat the bread of painful labor, for he gives to his beloved even while they sleep.
One of the unique things about a church is because it's his, he does whatever he wants with it.
And if it grows, we steward it.
And if it shrinks, we steward it.
And that being said, this last
Several years have been very interesting here at The Well.
And in fact, it's a bit of an inflection point because I can't quite explain what is happening.
And I've seen a lot through the years.
We've grown up together, video shot with really tight jeans and a field somewhere to where we are today.
And we've kind of grown up as a church and seen several movements throughout the decades we've been together.
And that being said, we have doubled in the last 18 months.
And I'm not quite sure I can tell you why.
We've in our kids ministry has grown by 170 percent.
Our student ministry by 150 percent.
And numbers don't tell the whole story, but they do give you a bit of an indication.
In the last six months here at this church, there's been an average of adult and kid attendance of over 8,000 people every single week.
Now, bigger is not better.
And truthfully, all that means then is we have more that we need to steward.
But with that, if you come to one gathering, you might lose sight of what's happening all over in our church.
And so we do 13 different gathering options every week.
And so to see what God is doing, it's just very special.
And so in that, we feel the need to steward it.
And so we started making some plans because it's really not rocket science.
There are five limiting factors of a church that when you hit capacity in any one of these five,
You need to make a change.
You need to find a way to grow.
One obviously is parking.
One is auditorium or sanctuary space.
One is kids space.
One is student space.
And the other, which is a sneaky one for us, is adult classroom space.
And much like when your toddler outgrows their shoes, which is like every other day, then you just have to get new shoes.
You just need to accommodate for that growth.
And so as we continue to process what God is doing, we've hit some of those
Limiting factors.
And so we started to plan like good leaders should.
And we started to come up with some next steps and things that we felt like probably made sense.
Obviously our fig garden campus is beautiful and in need of some renovation there.
And so we thought, okay, let's keep renovating that.
We've got a large campus here.
And so let's continue to grow maybe in this campus and we'll just make some room and it all kind of made sense in terms of where we were heading until it didn't.
And what's interesting about that is we invited our church to pray.
Many of you participated in that over the last three, four, five months and just said, okay, Lord, we don't want to get out in front of you.
I mean, the Bible reminds us that many of the plans of a man's heart, but the counsel of the Lord is what will stand.
That if we commit our plans to the Lord, they'll be established.
And so we said, okay, Lord, this is what we're planning.
Is this what you want?
It makes sense to us.
And we were moving down that road, and as we prayed about it, felt very clearly that the Lord wanted us to go another direction.
Now thankfully, that's not biblically unprecedented.
So if you've read through the book of Acts in Acts chapter 13, the apostle Paul goes with Barnabas on the first missionary journey in Asia Minor, known as modern day Turkey.
They plant churches that may sound familiar to those of you familiar with your Bible.
They plant the church of Galatia.
He writes a book to them.
They plant the church of Colossae, Laodicea, Hierapolis, and Ephesus.
And the ministry there in Asia Minor is actually really, really fruitful.
Timothy comes to faith at that time, like there's really neat things that are happening there.
So in Acts chapter 15, they go back out on a second missionary journey, and it just made sense to go back there.
Like that's where all of the sort of
the dots were kind of aligning them to continue in that journey.
And so go do what you thought you needed to do.
And so they go back.
And in chapter 16, verse five, it says, all the churches there in Asia Minor are strengthened.
And then something very unique happens.
In verse six of Acts 16, they pass through some of the regions there.
They pass through the Phrygian and Galatian region, but they're forbidden by the Holy Spirit to speak the word any longer in Asia.
And then it says in verse seven, they come to a region called Missia, and they were trying to go into Bethynia, but the spirit of Jesus did not permit them.
Now there's a number of places in the Bible.
I just wanna go, okay, wait a minute, what do you mean by that?
Like what did that look like?
For the spirit of God to say no.
For the spirit of Jesus, himself to say no.
And they just keep getting moved geographically more and more westward.
What was that about?
How did that,
And then we know why actually in verse nine, Paul gets a vision of a man on the other side of the Aegean Sea in the region of Macedonia.
And this man in this vision says, come over here and help us.
And when Paul in verse 10 had this vision, it says, immediately he sought to go to Macedonia.
And one of the things I appreciate about the Apostle Paul is he had plans that were established, but when the Lord said, no, I want you to do this.
He said, okay.
And he just shifts gears.
He just immediately goes and he's just obedient to whatever God had for him.
And if you recall what happens next in the book of Acts, he goes over to Macedonia, plants of church in Philippi, Thessalonica, Berea, Athens, Corinth, that entire region has changed because he immediately went where God called him to go.
And I share that because as we've been sort of praying about what was next, everything in our plans said here at this campus, sanctuary, sanctuary, sanctuary.
Let's build a sanctuary.
Let's make more room.
Let's make more parking.
Let's repurpose the current auditorium for more kid space.
Let's check a number of those limiting factor boxes at our fig garden campus.
Let's renovate that like that all made sense.
And as we prayed our elders and it was, I can't explain it.
We didn't get a vision of a Macedonian man by any means, but there was just such a sense of unity together.
I don't think that's what God has for us now.
That may be an eventual step, but I think there's some things that we need to do before that.
And so we're gonna make a pivot.
And much like Paul immediately pivoted, we're gonna share with you what that pivot looks like.
Now the good news is it's not a complete departure.
We're still committed to the next generation.
It's still about Psalm 71.
Oh God, you have taught us from our youth and we still declare your wondrous deeds that even when we are old and gray, oh God, do not forsake us until we declare your strength to this generation, your power, to all who are to come.
It's still about
the next generation.
It's also for us about teaching, training, equipping, and discipling.
So that's not changing.
We want to strengthen this generation.
We want to reach the next.
We know that we need both the more seasoned vintage and the passionate youth.
That's the life of a church.
And so we recognize that.
But what we do know is we need to take some next steps.
And so we're going to be launching here today another campaign called Cultivate.
And just to give you a little bit of history on that, one of the things we did early on when we launched Cultivate back in 2018 with the tight jeans in the field is we said, hey, first thing we want to do is something different.
Instead of doing a capital campaign where you put a thermometer on the wall, you do drive by guiltings every week, everybody feels completely shamed into giving.
What if we did it different?
And in fact, what if we reframe the whole thing?
And so let's invite people to participate as they feel led
And the first half a million dollars that comes in, let's give that away.
People said, that makes no sense.
Why would you do a capital campaign and give money away?
I said, well, if we have a value of generosity, I think that actually reinforces that value.
And so let's actually reflect that.
And so we picked 11 organizations in 2018.
These are all gospel centered initiatives in our city.
And they were, interestingly enough, combating human trafficking, helping with orphan care,
and dealing with or addressing the needs of at-risk youth, which is interesting because you'll see there's a bit of a golden thread there.
In 2021, we did another round of Cultivate and we said, look, first fruits was awesome.
Let's do that again.
But instead of 11 organizations, let's pick one because at that time, the Fresno Mission, which is doing amazing work continuing here in our city.
They've been doing it for a generation now.
They have just purchased the Sierra Hospital, which is on Dakota and between Blackstone and
the freeway, and they converted it to a place called City Center.
And so they've got this ministry and city center.
They're bringing the best of our city by way of nonprofits into city center.
But one of the things, as we discussed it with them, that we all felt was lacking, was a church there.
I said, well, what if we planted a church at city center called City Church?
We had a pastor who was on our staff, Mark Sneaker, I call him Snezer.
I go, hey, Snezer, what if we launch you over to City Church and plant this thing?
And he said, man, that sounds awesome.
So we took a half a million dollars and we planted a church called City Church.
Now the other day I was at an event for the mission.
And they were showing pictures of some of the ministry that's happening there at City Center and at City Church.
And it was so encouraging.
Because as I'm looking at these pictures of the events that are happening,
They're ministering to some of the most vulnerable in our city, but I'm like, hey, that face looks familiar.
That person leads a life group for us.
That person has been around our church forever.
That person works in our kids' ministry.
That person works with our student ministry.
All of these people that are serving at City Church had been engaged and are engaged here as part of our family, worshiping here, and then ministering there in City Church.
I'm like, look at the body, be in the body in every neighborhood.
And so we're still a part of what's happening there.
But I wanna tell you what we're gonna do this
time.
We're going to launch a campaign, as I mentioned, and we are going to do first fruits, but we don't think that half a million dollars is enough.
We want to give away a million dollars and strategically reinvest a million dollars into three now local initiatives.
And I want to tell you about those.
The first that we're going to partner with is called the Care Portal.
And the Care Portal is fascinating.
It's a web-based care share platform designed to connect people of need
with people of means in the community.
I'll give you an example.
Let's say in Southwest Fresno, there's a family that is bringing in at-risk youth, and they're bringing in orphaned children.
And let's say one of those children is on the floor.
They don't have a bed for that child.
Well, if social worker hears about that, social worker's gonna say, hey, look, to keep the kid, you've gotta have a bed for that child to sleep in, or we're gonna have to replace or re-put the child to a different home, okay?
Just out of curiosity, if I said to you right now, we've got a situation in Southwest Fresno, there's a child that needs a bed.
How many of you have a bed that you could help provide for that child?
Raise your hand if you've got a bed you might be able to provide.
What if I said to you, hey, it's $200 to get a bed for that child?
How many of you could get your neighbors or your life group or your family together?
You could all pitch in and you could come up with 200 bucks to get that kid into bed?
Okay, question.
Why haven't you done that?
You haven't done that because you didn't know there was a need.
What if you did?
And so what care portal does is makes the needs available.
So as your life group gets together and says, hey, man, we should do something.
I mean, James says pure and undefiled religion is caring for widows and orphans.
Let's find a situation where we can go help and we can help meet that need.
Now the person with the need is matched with the people of means.
And now that kid stays in a functional home because you help provide a bed.
Isn't that awesome?
In Acts chapter two and in Acts chapter four,
The early church, as it grew, it says that there was no needy person among them.
Now I find that hard to believe.
Do you mean to tell me that there was actually no needy person among them?
Or were the needy people that were among them who had the needs known by people who had the means so the people of means simply met the need and therefore there was no needy person among them?
That feels to me like what the church is called to be.
It gets even better.
Let's say that family in Southwest Fresno is across the street from image church by way of example.
Well, image church is pastored by Jay Spence.
Jay Spence has been connected to our church.
He's a lead pastor there.
We love Jay Spence and he's killing it in Southwest Fresno.
What if we said, hey, Jay Spence, there's a need that's been posted across the street from your church?
But chances are, if that family wants to come to church, they're not gonna come here, they're probably gonna go across the street to you.
So we're gonna meet the need, but we want your church to provide the need to that family so the need gets met.
We'll be the supply line, you be the front line, so if and when that family wants to come to church, they walk across the street to your place.
Now the kingdom is being exalted.
not our castle.
That sounds absolutely fantastic.
And so we're gonna partner with the care portal.
We'll be telling you more about that in the coming weeks.
There's two other initiatives though that we want you to know about.
One is called Our Valley Cares, and the other is called The Spee's House.
And so I met with Matt Dildine, who's the CEO of The Mission, and I said, okay, tell me, Matt, about what you're doing.
I mean, I care about this.
You're a part of our church.
The mission is obviously something we're heavily invested in.
Tell me about these two initiatives.
I wanna make sure when I communicate it, I've got the heart.
And as I was listening to him, I said, you know what?
On second thought, why don't you just join us and you share the heart because you're living in it.
And so why don't you welcome CEO of The Mission, Matt Dilduy.
Thank you, buddy, for coming.
So tell us a little bit, as we hung out the other day, I was like, okay, we need to hear from you on this.
Tell us about these initiatives of our valley cares and the space house, how are they connected and connect the dots for us to that golden thread of at risk youth.
Yeah, so thank you so much for being here.
This is my home church for those you don't know, been here for 15 years.
And you know, I've loved during that time that we have had such a focus as a church about trying to reach the next generation.
And I love that because I am in my work every day and we see such evil and I leave work all the time thinking
We just flat out need more Christians.
We just flat out do because evil is such a real thing.
But the evil that we see when you're dealing with trafficking or homeless, when we start looking at these issues, we see that so much of that starts when they're young.
90% of human trafficking adult victims have actually experienced from the child welfare system.
You're actually
a youth aging out of the foster care system is more likely to become homeless than an adult exiting prison.
If you go and survey the average person who's lived on the street for an excess of one year and asked, when is the first time in their life the experienced homelessness?
40% will tell you from zero to 14.
And just flat out what we see is that the highest population, the highest population, the population
Fresno, California, United States is increasing the fastest is homeless kids.
That's the number one population is increasing.
And so we see all this and we're seeing these kids coming to us and they're coming up to us at the mall and even this last two services, right?
Both services, right?
And Thursday and Thursday in this morning, I had two different people come up to me and say, hey, we have this, I'm a school counselor, I have an 18 year old, she has no place else to go.
She's getting kicked out, no place else to go.
What we're seeing is this explosion.
And so we said, man, what if we put a stake in the ground, said not in our community?
What if we created a system of care that's gonna bring together all the partners and say, we're gonna create the best system of care in the entire country to make sure that no youth who's in crisis, every youth who's in crisis has a place to go and the absolute best system of care waiting there for them.
rooted in the gospel.
What if we could do that?
And that's when we came up with our Valley Cares.
The Our Valley Cares initiative, though, is more than just a one organization initiative.
You know, I kind of like, you know, you know, read in the New Testament, Paul, and he's praying for all these churches around, right?
Right?
And I think about all the ministries in our community that need help.
And so part of our Valley Cares, we really created this fundraising platform, this funding platform,
to help bring together these organizations and then be able to help raise money for them.
Now, why would one nonprofit ministry raise money for another nonprofit ministry?
It's kind of like when a church who's raising money for its buildings gives money to another organization.
It's kind of like we have this great big God who's a God of abundance and not a God of scarcity.
You can say it's all his resources.
And when we lean into that, we receive his favor.
And so what we're doing is the R Valley Cares Initiative is we're taking money to be able to distribute
and to build, help bring up a system.
But as far as that system, we needed to bring, to also build the very best place.
You know, we deal with kids who've been trafficked, who've been 12 different foster homes, who were not born with the best of parents, not born with the best, you know, weren't born with the college, the college bank accounts, were born well beyond where the starting line should be in their lives.
They never get the best of anything.
But I also noticed that the single
best thing, when you have had years or decades of abuse, abandonment, trauma, neglect, the very best thing we have to fight, those years of abuse is years of being part of a faith community that loves you and cares for you, that you're in the gospel.
But that has to be able to occur in some place.
So as part of that, we want to build a speech house.
We want to build the very best ministry and crisis center for youth.
not just locally in the entire country.
I am so glad that I get to pick up my kids here on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, and it looks like an anthill full of kids that are reaching the gospel, receiving the gospel.
And I'm so happy for these projects.
But I know the kids that are staying on my campus, the kids who are wandering at fashion for at night, the kids are being trafficked, they need the best place to go to.
And that's why we're building the space house.
My kids need something different.
The kids that we work with, they're number one request.
You know what that is?
a wash machine.
Never think of a youth room with a wash machine, right?
That's the number one request.
So we want to build this place called the Spies House.
It will be this ministry central to provide housing, job placement, a place for them to go, food, a store, a place for them to nap, a place for them to wash their clothes.
But more importantly, it's a place where they can go 24 hours a day to receive the community that they have not received up to that point in life, rooted in the gospel.
Matt was sharing a story about kids that'll hang out in the parking lot, fashion, fair mall all night.
He said, why do they hang out in the parking lot?
It's not necessarily to participate in nonsense, so they won't be victimized, so they stay up all night.
Then they come over to City Center to find a couch where they can get some sleep.
So we're gonna provide that safe place for them.
The name Speeds, by the way, comes from H. Speeds, who's now with Jesus.
H and Randy White were kind of the OG,
relocators in our city, they were going in to do asset-based community development before anybody else was thinking about that.
And literally, I think they wrote the book on it.
And so they both sort of pioneered community transformation.
And so in honor of age and in keeping with his vision of being a safe place for youth, that's the Our Valley Cares and the Spee's House.
So appreciate it, buddy.
Thank you.
All right.
If you're interested in more information, all three of those organizations are in our courtyard at both campuses right now.
You can go get some more details and learn more about that.
Let me tell you a little bit about what we're going to do with our fig garden campus.
So if you've been with us, you know, we did the kids' buildings first.
We did the sanctuary second.
We're now going to do the fellowship hall for a number of reasons.
One, nobody in 2026 knows what a fellowship hall is.
And we've learned a little bit from doing a student center here.
We're going to convert that from a fellowship hall to a student center
full audio-visual lighting upgrade.
We're going to expand it out a little bit to match the storefront glass that's already on that campus.
Perhaps even remodel the kitchen, new play structure, perhaps a block wall along the canal.
We're looking to upgrade and finish that fourth and final building on that campus to upgrade it.
That is part of this process.
And then regarding here at this campus, we're going to take the current pantry and office
pole barn and cold storage located on the northern part of our property.
We're going to demo that and build what we're calling a ministry center.
And a ministry center is a centralized office in complex, but also an adult training center.
It's going to have classroom space in it, perhaps even a fourth and fifth grade room to make some room out of our kids building to temporarily house them there.
I say temporarily.
in that once we do the eventual move, if that's what the Lord has for us and build a sanctuary, then we'll repurpose this auditorium for kids and our fourth and fifth graders will come here, but it'll be an intermediate step to make a little bit of room for them.
It'll be a one, maybe two story.
office complex.
We're not quite sure what it's going to look like yet, which is why we have nothing to show you yet, but we're heading down that road.
The other thing that'll do for us is that means the million dollars of portables that we've put on the property, we can vacate those by way of officeing and convert those now to some adult breakout space rooms as well.
So we think that's a good next step.
for us as we move forward.
Let's talk just for a little bit about the financing of all of this.
In 2018, when we took the first step of Cultivate, we ended up taking on a very large debt load of 17 million in debt.
And I have said that number now for eight years, a lot.
And there's still a lot of zeros that are there.
But thankfully, that's not a debt load that is hindering our ministries at all.
We can service that.
without having to impact anything.
And in fact, as of today, it's down to 16.3 million.
And so we understand the concern of being over your skis, if you will, with debt.
And thankfully, that is not something that's hindering us at this point.
But when we took on now this new student center build and renovated the sanctuary over at our fig garden campus, we took on an additional $3 million in debt.
And the goal was to pay that down as soon as possible.
Well, in September,
That was paid down to about 1.7 million.
And I'm happy to tell you that as of today, the current debt that we are still carrying from the Student Center is zero.
So we have paid that off, which is wonderful.
Which means then we can step into this next Cultivate effort without carrying any additional debt.
We're just currently still servicing that 16.3 million as we move forward.
That being said, we really would like this campaign, if possible, to be primarily a cash
build, which means we'd like to not take on any additional debt if we could avoid it.
Now, that being said, thankfully, this is a very generous church and giving is up.
So we do have some headroom if we needed to take on some additional, but we're very careful to not get too far into debt service so it hinders ministry.
So the number for this capital campaign, this round of cultivate is a $20 million number.
Now,
That's a lot of money as well.
But if you've tried to build anything in this environment currently, everything's expensive.
So we recognize it's a lot, but here's what we did in the meantime.
We decided, hey, look, we need to reach out to our leaders and see if our leaders would go first.
And so we reached out to some leaders.
We did a small event a couple of weeks ago and invited our leaders to go first so that when we went public with the campaign, we can have some monies already committed to it and make that $20 million number a little bit more manageable.
It was approximately 350 commitments that came in from our leaders and they committed not one million, not two million, not three million, not four million, but five million dollars.
Which means the current cultivate need additionally is not 20 million.
We're already a quarter of the way there.
It's 15 million dollars and we haven't even gone public yet to our congregations.
And so the generosity of our leaders to lead well
is before us, and so we're very thankful for that.
And so with that, though, I want to walk us through if we can this card.
If you came here today and you said, what's Cultivate, we've got some information on this side of the card that you might want to take a look at to get up to speed on what we're trying to accomplish, but I want to focus on this part if we can in the time that's remaining.
Obviously, general name and info if you're comfortable participating in Cultivate, and I would hope
Based on the first box that you see there, I would love for everybody to be willing to participate, at least by checking that first box and saying, hey, look, I may not be able to give anything, but I can most certainly pray.
That's not the least you can do.
That's actually the greatest thing you can do.
And so if you'd be comfortable saying, hey, I'm gonna commit to pray for Cultivate.
Let's see what the Lord has for us.
Check that first box there and commit to pray for Cultivate would be great.
The second box says, I'm willing to begin to give to the well just in general.
And if that's you, that would be awesome.
Now, why would we put that on this card?
Well, if we have grown and doubled in the last 18 months, then that means there's a lot of you here who've not yet participated in supporting just the general movement of helping people connect to God and to each other in every neighborhood.
And if you would be interested in doing that, that would help tremendously.
Even if you say, hey, I'm new to the church, I'm not willing to commit to cultivate yet, even just that,
would help continue to fund the various ministries that we're a part of and the various initiatives that we're rolling out.
But the third one is what I want to focus on now.
And that's making a cultivate commitment.
It's a three year campaign.
So we just want you to pray about what would you be comfortable doing over three years?
And let me remind you of what we said last week as it relates to both general giving and giving to cultivate.
One of the most important things is to give whatever you feel that you can give with joy.
If the idea of giving to the well or giving to cultivate gives you hives and gives you no joy, then don't give anything.
Bring your Bible next week.
We'll start our series called Monarchy.
We're going to look at King Saul.
David, King Solomon, and King Jesus, and we'll just keep walking this messy process out together.
There is no guilt here at the well.
It's invitation, we're not shoving you in the back.
But we do want to challenge those of you that want to participate to fill out a card.
One of the things I love about our church is we tend to have a bit of a chip on our shoulder.
So with both campaigns that we've done previous people are like, look, I'm gonna give, but I'm not filling out your stupid card.
And in some ways, I kind of respect it.
I kind of respect it because I'm like that too, but let me tell you why we need the card, okay?
Even if you're not sure and you want to aim conservative, totally fine, totally fine, because I think people didn't want to be locked in.
You can adjust your giving commitment anytime you want.
It's yours to adjust.
Here's why that will help us.
If we get commitments in sufficient to the amount that we need,
And we can justify to the bank and substantiate that we're on pace to actually fulfill that, then they can give us a construction loan and we can move forward much quicker otherwise.
We're gonna have to wait till every dime's in the account before we can launch out.
And if you've built anything, it usually takes longer than you would like.
And so that will help us move forward much, much quicker.
And then you can just let us know how you wanna fulfill that, whether it's every month or this or that.
Now here's one of the things we learned early on.
For years, my wife and I gave you a check.
Now, this is old school, so I don't know if you even write checks anymore, but we gave you a check.
And every once in a while, we'd forget, right?
You just life happened, you forget.
Then you're like, okay, well, then I'll double it.
We've ever tried to double something like that, like, ooh, that stings a little bit.
But you know what I realized?
George Brown got paid every single month.
I'm like, I love George, but he doesn't deserve it.
I'm gonna give to the Lord.
That's my financial value.
George got paid every month because he took it out of my account every month.
And so I said, well, can we do that?
So we brought in recurring online giving, which allows you to simply set it and forget it, meaning you don't have to cut the check.
Now some people are like, no, no, no, God wants my check.
Look, if that's the case, we have boxes in the back, you can bring your check in, totally fine or mail it to the office, that's fine.
But for those of you that are tech savvy and want to do something online, if you go to our website,
click on the give page, all of the details are there.
You can even do a Cultivate Envelope digitally on that site if you would like.
Now, as we close four things I wanna just encourage you with, all right?
First is I wanna encourage you, because we have to answer the question, what are we gonna do in the meantime?
Because we still have parking issues at both campuses, we still have some auditory issues, right?
We've got some issues.
And so what do we do in the meantime?
One, I wanna encourage you to migration, meaning,
We do 13 gathering options every single week.
Some indoors, some outdoors, some in Fresno, some in Clovis, some on Thursday, some on Sunday.
If you do not have children and could migrate to midweek, there is plenty of room at midweek for more adults.
There's not more room for kids because we do our reengaged ministry and our merged ministry and oftentimes our children's ministry is full.
But if you don't have kids and you want to come to midweek, it's the best kept secret at the well, come to midweek.
Come join us.
If you're a college or young adult student to move to the PM gathering, our rowdy's hang out at seven, come.
They've been open in the coffee house and hanging out.
I heard karaoke went down the other night.
It was awesome.
So come and hang out in our PM gathering.
That will be great.
If you live in central Fresno, our Figardan campus has a little bit of room, not a ton, but a little bit.
If you want to go check it out.
They mirror the morning gathering times that we do here at Clovis.
over our fig garden campus and we're a multi-site church.
We're one church in multiple locations.
And then if you're open to it, we're looking at putting some shade in our outdoor theater.
If possible, we're exploring what that would look like to make that a more viable option.
Mornings like today might be a nice time to do it, but truthfully,
if the fog is rolling in, maybe not, but we're gonna make that available.
And then in our student center auditorium, we're launching what we're calling a family venue.
They're meeting currently now, but we're gonna be plussing that venue to have kids, kids for your kids.
They can draw it up and whatnot.
So if you wanna be with your kids, go in there.
You're certainly welcome to.
We're trying to create as much space as we can.
So migration.
Second, we wanna encourage you to change up your routine a little bit.
So most folks, you come right when the gathering starts and then try to park
and then try to get your coffee and then try to come and find a seat.
And unfortunately, oftentimes that makes it a little bit difficult because you're just late, not your fault.
It's just the occupational hazard of coming late.
That being said, if you came a little early, easier to find a parking place, you can get your coffee and, I don't know if you've noticed this, you all sit in the same places.
Which means like the same five or 10 people are around you almost every week.
So it also would give you the opportunity to get to know the people that you're sitting around
so that now strangers can become friends and a larger church can feel small.
So would you encourage or encourage you to change your routine?
Third, I would encourage you to get connected.
Get connected.
As we're continuing to grow, the focus over these next three years are teaching, training, equipping, and discipling, but it's going to require you to take a next step.
We can't force you into community.
but we can't invite you.
And I will say this, if you don't take the step into a group or on a team, it will be very easy for you to feel lost here.
And so we wanna encourage you to make that step.
Why get in a group?
Why get on a team?
Because you'll be known and no others.
You'll be cared for and you'll care for others.
You'll be prayed for and you'll be able to pray for others.
And it helps a larger church feel small.
And then finally, I wanna encourage you to participate and cultivate
as you feel led from the Lord.
See, the beauty of this is you get to pray about it, do whatever God puts on your heart to do.
And it's between you and him.
But what I do know is if we will engage, especially those that have never engaged with us before, if we will engage everybody, if a small group of 350 leaders can move the needle like they did, maybe it's possible that we close the rest of it together with whatever widows might God lays on your heart to give.
Amen.
I'm gonna close by just reading Ephesians chapter three, just a good reminder as we close up.
hear this week and head into this cultivate effort.
It says, now to him who was able to do abundantly beyond all that we ask or think according to his power that works within us, to him be the glory in the church and in Christ Jesus to all generations forever and forever.
Amen.
Let's pray.
God, would you do exactly that?
Would you do exceedingly abundantly beyond all we can ask or think?
And Lord, we are asking you to provide for your church.
This is yours.
In some ways, well, this is your fault.
You did this.
And so in that, Lord, you've got a problem with your church.
And so we pray that by your grace, you would move in our hearts to respond.
However, you lead us that we could be able to respond to this wonderful problem that we have.
And Lord, we want to steward this movement well, but we can't do it without you.
So do exceedingly abundantly beyond all we could ask or think for you and for your glory.
And we'll thank you in Jesus' name.
Amen.
Thank you so much for coming today.
God bless you.
We'll see you next week.